- [Instructor] Now let us create simple RESTful services
with a H plus spring MVC application.
Let's create a controller,
which uses two annotations,
@controller,
and @responsebody.
Let's go back to the IDE,
and on com.testwork H plus,
I'm going to right click
and create a new package first,
which will be called REST controllers.
I'm deliberately trying to keep this in a separate package
so that when you refer the code,
you have a clear distinction
of which one was a REST controller
and which one was an MVC controller.
Under this,
let's create a class.
Let's call this
products best controller.
And let's designate this as controller quickly
and down there let's provide a get mapping.
Now there's a convention that your RESTful services
generally follow when you try to define the URL pattern.
So let's say this is called H plus/rest/products.
Something like this.
Alternatively, you could also use
request mapping as an annotation.
In all our controllers by far
we have always used get mapping,
post mapping, etcetera.
But you could also use request mapping,
but here, you will have to specify
the name of the method by means of the method attribute,
spring 4.0 version onwards,
these specific annotations of get mapping
and post mapping were introduced.
And as you see,
it becomes clear to look at that kind of code
rather than a line like request mapping.
So I'm going to stick to the get mapping annotation.
Okay?
Now let's go ahead and follow this with a method.
Let's say this is public
and will return a list of products.
And let's call this get products.
So if you see now
I am not trying to define
the return type of my controller method as a string type.
Instead, I have a list of products being returned.
And inside this, what am I going to do?
I'm going to call
the Product repository to get data.
Now that infrastructure is already ready with us
because we had already introduced the product repository
in one of our earlier use cases.
So I'm just going to auto wire that class again,
on line 13.
let's auto wire product repository,
which has all the necessary methods
to transact against the database.
And inside this
on line 21,
I'll call product repository.findall.
So this is that default method,
which comes from crude repository,
and it will give me an interoperable of products.
So I'm going to employ for each
and provide a consumer implementation to it.
So let's say I'm saying product for every product,
you have to add it to a list.
So let's create a list first on the top.
Let's just hold line 21 for a moment,
and first get a list created for products.
So once we have the list ready,
now you can go ahead and add every product
to that list.
Okay, so we have employed the consumer
using the for each implementation.
Now let's go ahead and just say,
return products,
that is all.
So now, if you see,
this method is trying to return a list of products.
Now when a request is made to this controller
using this URL pattern,
how is it that spring MVC is going to return
that list of products to you?
That will be done with the help of another annotation,
which is response body.
Response body annotation is used to tell spring MVC
that the return type of the method,
which is a list of products in this case,
is supposed to represent the body of the response.
So, whenever this service is invoked,
the list of products will get converted
into a JSON representation,
and will go back to the client.
That's how we use that @response body annotation.
And that's what we were discussing
in one of our previous slides
that you no longer need the name of the view.
So that is all,
are first REST controller is ready with us?
Let's go ahead and build this,
and then let's test it out.
Now the mechanism that we're going to employ to test this,
is the postman tool.
It is like the de facto standard of testing RESTful services
in the industry today.
So I'm going to employ that,
let's open postman,
let's create a new request,
and that is a get request
and say http localhost atat/hplus/rest/ products.
So if you see,
let's go to the IDE.
That was the URL pattern that we had defined
for this REST endpoint.
So that's what we're embedding there.
And when you click on Send,
there you go,
you have all your products returned as an array.
So that list of products got converted
into a JSON representation in the form of an array
and is ready at your disposal.
So this is it.
We have design created a simple RESTful endpoint.
Now our clients can go and access that endpoint
in order to get a list of all the products
that H plus has.